.TH PROJECT 1 "JULY 2009" Turnin-NG "Queen's University"
.SH NAME
project \- manage assignments submitted with turnin
.SH SYNOPSYS
.B project [
.I OPTIONS
.B ] [
.I project-name
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Manages assigments submitted with the
.B turnin (1)
program. Allows the creation of
courses and projects and the management of said courses and projects.

Ommitting 
.B [
.I project-name
.B ]
will cause
.B project
to use the default project.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-\-version
Print project's version.
.IP "\-h, \-\-help"
Print these options.
.IP "\-d, \-\-disable"
Disable the current project.
.IP "\-D, \-\-perm-disable"
Permanently disable submissions for the current project.
.IP "\-e, \-\-enable"
Enable submissions for the current project and make it the default project.
.IP "\-l"
Enable submissions for the current project but does not make it the default
project.
.IP "\-r, \-\-remove"
Remove the current project and all associated files.
.IP "\-i, \-\-init"
Initialize a project. Requires you to pass
.I project-name
.IP "\-p, \-\-compress"
Compress this project using the
.B tar(1)
and
.B gzip(1)
formats.
.IP "\-x, \-\-extract"
Extract this project. This option will be called automatically if you enable a
compressed project.
.IP "\-v, \-\-verify"
Verify the cryptographic signatures on submitted assignments using
.B gpg(1)
May require you to fetch the student's public key.
.IP "\-\-list"
Print a list of projects, along with wether or not they are enabled and shows
which project is the default project.
.IP "\-\-config=CONFIG"
Path to an alternate configuration file.
.IP "\-c COURSE, \-\-course=COURSE"
Switch between the courses you are currently administering.
.IP "\-w, \-\-legal"
Print warranty and license information.

.B "ADMINISTRATIVE OPTIONS"
.IP "\-\-create-course=COURSE"
Creates the course COURSE.
.IP "\-\-delete-course=COURSE"
Deletes the course COURSE.
.IP "\-\-archive-course=COURSE"
Archives the course using the
.B tar(1)
and
.B gzip(1)
formats.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP \w'project\ 'u
.BI project\ \-\-create-course \ world-cheeses
Create the course world-cheeses.
.TP
.BI project\ \-c \ world-cheeses \ \-i \ stilton
Create the project stilton in the course world-cheeses.
.TP
.BI project\ \-c \ world-cheeses \ \-e \ stilton
Enable and make default the project stilton
.TP
.BI project\ \-c \ world-cheeses \ \-D \ stilton
Permanently disable submissions for the project stilton.
.TP
.BI project\ \-c \ world-cheeses \ \-p \ stilton
Compress the project stilton.
.TP
.BI project\ \-\-archive-course \ world-cheeses
Compress the course world-cheeses and remove it from the global configuration
file.

.SH FILES
.I /etc/turnin-ng.cf

.SH SEE ALSO
The full documentation for
.B project
is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the
.B info
and
.B project
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info turnin-ng
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
.SH AUTHOR
Turnin-NG and this manpage were written by Ryan Kavanagh <ryanakca@kubuntu.org>
in July 2009. It is a replacement for the 'project' and 'turnin' commands
written in 1990 for the SPARC architecture by an unknown author.

Both Turnin-NG and this manpage are distributed under the terms of the GNU
General Public License version 2, or (at your option) any later version.
