.TH TURNIN 1 "AUGUST 2009" Turnin-NG "Queen's University"
.SH NAME
turnin \- submit assignments to be graded
.SH SYNOPSYS
.B turnin [
.I OPTIONS
.B ] -c [
.I course-name
.B ] files
.SH DESCRIPTION
Submits assignments to be graded. We submit to the default project if it is not
specified as an option.

.SH REQUIRED ARGUMENTS
.IP "\-c, \-\-course"
Sets the course to which we'll submit our assignments.
.IP files
A list of files we wish to submit. They will be compressed using
.B tar(1)
and 
.B gzip(1)
formats before being copied to the submission directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-\-version
Print turnin's version
.IP "\-h, \-\-help"
Print a help message
.IP "\-l, \-\-list"
Prints a list of projects, along with wether or not they are enabled and shows
which project is the default project.
.IP "\-p, \-\-project"
Sets the project to which we'll submit our assignments.
.IP "\-C, \-\-config"
Path to an alternate configuration file
.IP "\-v, \-\-verbose"
Prints a list of submitted files once they have been submitted.
.IP "\-k, \-\-keyid"
Cryptographically signs an assignment using
.B gpg(1)
.
.IP "\-w, \-\-legal"
Print warranty and license information.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP \w'turnin\ 'u
.BI turnin\ \-c \ world-cheeses \ \-\-list
List the projects in the course world-cheeses.
.TP
.BI turnin\ \-c \ world-cheeses\ stilton-recipe
Submit the file stilton-recipe to the default project in the course
world-cheeses.
.TP
.BI turnin\ \-c \ world-cheeses \ \-p \ stilton\ stilton-recipe
Submit the file stilton-recipe to the project stilton in the course
world-cheeses.

.SH FILES
.I /etc/turnin-ng.cf
.I ~/.turnin-ng/submissions

.SH SEE ALSO

The full documentation for
.B turnin
is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the
.B info
and
.B turnin
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info turnin-ng
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.

.SH AUTHOR
Turnin-NG and this manpage were written by Ryan Kavanagh <ryanakca@kubuntu.org>
in the summer of 2009. It is a replacement for the 'project' and 'turnin' commands
written in 1990 for the SPARC architecture by an unknown author.

Both Turnin-NG and this manpage are distributed under the terms of the GNU
General Public License version 2, or (at your option) any later version.
